Tom, could you tell me your full name and your title?
Thomas Albro, Acting Chief of the Conservation Division.
Okay, and how do you spell your name, Tom?
A-L-B-R-O.
Okay, and why don't you tell me where we are?
This is the book conservation section of the Conservation Division, and as the name would imply, it is where we deal with the conservation treatment of bound rare materials.
rare is a very key adjective in that.
It is.
That affords us the salaries we get.
Can I just leave this someplace so I can take some notes, too?
Okay, good.
I'm just going to put this here.
So go ahead, Tom.
I'm sorry.
Thomas, would you use a middle initial?
C. A.
L-B-R-O, comma, the second is me.
I am, in fact.
Well, there you go.
And that's the whole manual.
And you are just for the same one?
Acting Chief of the Conservation Bureau.
Okay, good.
So go ahead, I interrupted you while you were saying.
We were talking about the preservation of the rare book.
Well, this is the rare book conservation section.
There are three sections in terms of specialties in the offices.
We have rare book conservation, we have art on paper conservation, and we have a concept of conservation called phased conservation, which essentially is stabilization as opposed to actual one-on-one treatment.
What you see here primarily is an individual item selected from the collection through a process of negotiation between the conservator and the curator based on its importance to the library and based on its
condition.
Theoretically, most valuable, worst condition is where we start and then work our way down through the 117 million authors.
Who makes the decision of importance?
That would be a curatorial decision.
And it's very subjective.
And you can't really argue with it.
I mean, a person in the geography and math division is going to have a different notion of what constitutes importance as a person who works in the music division.
Periodically, there are attempts on the part of management to sort of put down a set of guidelines which would be standard to the library for selection, but it's normally Shoup shouted down pretty quickly because it just is not a very sensible objective.
In any case, we then work with each curator and work out every year a proposal which we give to that division which assigns our points or hours broken down
based on a contract which says this is what we're going to do for you in these three areas of specialty book paper and phase so this is all figured out
If this is all determined, well, in advance, you don't get any, there's no triage here.
You don't get any emergency cases.
Oh, we do.
No, we do, certainly.
Sometimes material will be accessioned, which is too badly damaged or in such a condition that it can't be catalogued, and we would have to fix it then.
There are four main processes by which work comes down here.
We have a series of ongoing projects that have gone on for years.
The Jefferson Collection, naturally.
The Rosenwald Collection, the Cabinet of American Illustration, the Moldenauer Music Management Collection.
Huge collections of very, very important materials, which we work bit by bit on an ongoing process.
We have materials that are accessioned, as I said, and need to be worked on right away.
We have exhibit issues, where we have an exhibit like the American Treasure Show,
Things have to go on exhibit looking a certain way.
But you probably know a year in advance that you're going to have an exhibition.
Well, that's the theory.
The practice not always is that way.
The curators often are making up their minds about what's going to go into the show two weeks before the show opens.
And the fourth way is that we need to work on a certain set of things all the time.
In order for the skills that we have to be maintained,
You can't work on a certain type of binding once every five years.
You've got to do it all the time.
Or you're not doing justice to the craft aspect of the work, as opposed to just kind of, you know, thundering through something the same as done.
Now, you mentioned the figure 117 million or whatever it was.
Right.
Okay.
You're never going to do that in several lifetimes.
But how many objects a year are you able to?
It varies.
This is just an example.
This is last year's annual report.
The question was just asked.
Is there a copy of that around that I can... You can have this copy.
I'm sure you can get another copy.
For example, this is the preservation division.
This is the preservation division.
That does not necessarily mean us exclusively.
I understand.
But the way that we're obliged to sort of cram the figures to a funnel so that they come out in this reflection...
is indicative.
Volumes treated, $4,000.
Unbound paper-based items treated, $6,000.
Commercial library binding volumes, $199.
Books you send out to somebody to get them bound for $12 a piece.
Outsourcing.
Outsourcing, yes.
To use the euphemism.
Yes, yes.
This has been going on for years.
And then rehousings.
So that gives you a general idea.
Rehousing being what?
Instead of actually treating the object, simply physically protecting it with a box.
Mm-hmm.
I see.
Or taking housing.
Clamshell boxes, mylar things, if we do that, or whatever.
Folders, envelopes, whatever.
So that's a fairly big number.
And all that is done in this?
Generally speaking, not in this area.
I mean, this is all single-item, full-treatment conservation.
Most of the things that go in here are going to cost 50 hours to 500 hours.
They could write them.
Yeah, depending on the... Really?
Yeah.
Well, you're talking about the tip-top.
You're talking about things in many cases which...
the value is almost that a sign of it.
Can you give me an example of a 500-hour item?
Yeah, the Houdini scrapbook of a few years ago.
In other words, a scrapbook put together by Houdini, filled with incredible materials.
But a scrapbook in and of itself is just filled with all sorts of different things.
And it's a unique item as well.
Newspapers, posters.
All of them folded up and jammed into an album.
Was it one album?
Yes.
Wow.
So what had to happen in this particular case was, clearly they could not all go back into the album and be treated as well, because you have to unfold them, and then they don't fit in the album anymore.
What we did is we took cipochrome photographs of each page as it was originally, in the words you have essentially the facsimile, and that was bound up to be used as a resource.
And then each of the items was treated,
and then reallocated to another album in a different order.
But you had, you know, you had three or four hundred objects, essentially, going back into these bindings.
And it was very, very labor-intensive.
And it was probably more than five hundred hours.
It was probably closer to eight hundred.
Wow.
And you had more than one person working on it?
Yeah, sure.
Here, I'll just put this... Okay, yeah, thanks.
I hope you don't mind.
No, it's fine.
You saved me a call to my car response to somebody.
You're welcome to have a copy of the annual report.
And the average kind of work that we do, and we can look at some of this, probably is hitting right on about 100 hours.
If you calculate that, in most cases, the value of the objects are going to run from 50,000 to, I mean, inestimable, if you're talking about the rough draft or, you know, Lincoln's Gettysburg address to the million-dollar to the several hundred-thousand-dollar range, those costs bear up very well, you know, the value of the items.
This is not a production-oriented place.
It's a place that is high in symbolic content as well.
As you mentioned before, the unachievable goal of taking care of the library's entire collection.
It's not possible.
No one's even pretending that he can.
But we're obliged to at least be making an effort and making an effort at the highest possible level.
Now, if we could digress just a minute.
Chris, who's from the exhibit's office, needs to look at something in the vault, the treasure's vault, and I think you were scheduled to get a look in there anyway, so this is not a bad time.
Let's do it.
Terrific.
Can I just leave that stuff there?
Yeah, you can.
And I'll, I promise not to... I'll put my pen away.
I know the protocol.
Into the environmental treasure.
probably a better name is top treasure's vault okay well that's the key from here
Tell me something about this chamber that we're entering.
This is a chamber for the purposes of storing the library's designated top treasures.
Wow.
It's a cold storage vault and it maintains a constant temperature and humidity as well as very highly sophisticated security.
I'm going to put my pen away so there's no pain.
It's a pretty small chamber then, isn't it?
Is this stuff here just for the short term?
No, these are designated the top treasures of the Library of Congress and were designated so around the time of the invasion of Pearl Harbor, and these were the materials which would be taken from the library and stored in Fort Knox.
This is a very important room.
I'm looking at the Emancipation Proclamation, as first sketched and shown to the Cabinet, 1862, June 19, 1775.
We're going to take this out so we can measure it, and we can come back in here and look around.
You don't mind if I have a few goose pimples?
I really get my kicks out of things like this.
Wow.
And you're removing this now for what purpose?
Well, he's going to do some measurements.
This is going into the treasurer's show.
I see.
And so it will go into the top treasurer's case in the exhibit.
But it needs to be measured so that a housing can be made for it, so that it can sit in the exhibition looking as though it was actually intended to be there.
Because all of the top treasurers go into a special case, but they're not all the same shape, size, or format.
So Chris is stuck with having to figure out how to shove it in the case.
6-19-75.
So this is the opposite.
That's pretty exciting, isn't it?
To George Washington.
No, I've got to get back.
OK, can I go with you?
You can come back with me.
He'll be here with us for a bit, right?
OK, I'm just— Five minutes, next time.
OK.
Remember last time?
It took you a long time to get the measurements.
OK.
You know?
Maybe an hour.
Well, you can touch something, but you can't put it in the book.
No, no, no.
Tell me some of these things.
The Emancipation Proclamation.
Mason's miscellaneous letters.
1763 to 91.
Madison's Notes on the Constitutional Convention.
Lincoln's first inaugural, which is really 3461, which is, I think, one of the most wonderful things we have.
Here's two volumes of the Gutenberg Bible.
The other one's on exhibit.
This is the Gutenberg Bible.
Yeah, would you like to look at a copy?
Yeah, I would.
I've held on one.
I've touched one once, Mr. Scheides.
This is the Beckley copy of the Bill of Rights.
The which?
Beckley, John Beckley, who was the clerk of the House of Representatives.
And what have you got it in?
These right here are argon-filled chambers.
In other words, non-oxygen filled environments for some of the smaller ones that Gettysburg addressed there.
Declaration of Independence, rough draft.
That is the rough draft in Jefferson Town.
you know everything's scratched out in the in alien we're talking about objects of inestimable value to the united states of america yeah this is the first uh this is the um reading copy alleged purported purported yeah that's a tricky issue alleged is too it's too much a client that's right purported yeah this is uh let's put that in green don't worry uh well this is volume of three i think
That came with the Mulberry collection, I believe it did?
Oh, it did.
It did.
Jefferson's first and now he wrote an autobiography of Lincoln, another autobiography of Lincoln, the Columbus Codex.
The Columbus Codex being what?
This is the book that Columbus put together denoting his demands or his requirements for his discovery of the New World.
A lengthy, lengthy book written on vellum that he had ascribed to.
This is inscribed, did you say?
Well, it's written on vellum, and he had a scribe writing.
He had a scribe, okay.
And it was, in a sense, he was presenting this to the King of Queens, saying, now, I've done this for you, this is what I'd like done for me, you know, a commander of the Urshan Seas, etc., etc.
And also, there's a papal bull in the front from Alexander VI, and
And these are items that you said, these were designated, I guess, during World War II as items... As the category top treasure.
If we had to evacuate Washington, what are the things we're going to take with us?
These are the ones that... Now, it's interesting.
And we can actually go outside if you're getting a... No, I'm not.
This is quite thrilling, actually.
Because one of the things that's happening now is, of course, we've acquired a great many more things.
And the logical extension of that is, well, should we limit our top treasures to this pitifully small number?
Well, I think we should probably estimate the size of this room.
I would say probably 10 by 10, 12 by 12.
maybe eight feet tall if it's that high.
Like a ceiling.
A ceiling.
And so there is some undercurrent discussion as there has been for years.
Well, other divisions, this is primarily manuscript material, manuscript division material, other divisions have things that they would like to claim as top treasures as well.
Now, the fact of the matter is that would open such a can of worms of subjectivity and debate and political infighting
that this list, which is a manageable 18, could very well be 350.
Is this 18 items in here?
Is that what it is?
Is there a list in some place with the 18?
There is, yeah.
Is that something I can get?
You'd have to ask permission.
You couldn't ask it from me.
You asked it from Diane.
She's my boss.
She may say I could go ahead and give it to you.
But it has always been a security list, but in recent years, people have felt that
that security was sort of anti-democratic.
Well, it doesn't sound hard to figure out some of the things that are in here.
No, no, especially if you're standing here looking at the labels.
I can, I can.
But it basically is, well, no, it's not all basically that.
You have Civil War material, you have Revolutionary material, you have Federal material, you have Incunabula, which really doesn't fit into the top treasure of the nation.
And there is a giant Bible of Mines copy here.
Well, that used to be out... There's two volumes to it.
There are two volumes, so the second volume of the... I'm going to be in months in two weeks, but...
I'm going to Leipzig, by the way, to see what they're doing.
With the paper splitting?
Yeah, I mean, it's kind of stuff you don't do here.
We don't, no.
It's a different philosophy of preservation, isn't it?
A very different philosophy.
Maybe you could even... Well, why don't we... You can continue.
Well, the gentleman that's doing it, Mr. Vector, is very well known.
In fact, he's been here.
He's visited here, so I'm interviewing him.
He's a very nice man.
There was a time when I took after the collapse of the wall.
They thought he was a Stasi, but I think that's when he passed away.
And...
I mean, they have embraced technology differently than we have.
They would like to get large numbers of things done.
Paper splitting is a way that you take a document, put it on two rollers, it's separated, and then something is inserted in between, and then it's bonded all back together again.
All done?
All done.
That was pretty quick.
Yeah.
We got better.
It's a little more basic than these caskets.
And what are these?
All right.
I'll put it back.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate it.
I'm thinking that this is one of the things that's all exhibited.
So these aren't part of the actual 18?
No, they are.
Yeah, this is one of them.
This is the first inaugural and the second inaugural.
I wonder how they came to 18.
That, I don't know.
Has this been pretty much just a consistent number?
It hasn't changed.
There's always been that one number.
And this was done during McLeish's, I guess?
Yes.
And I wonder why they decided to take a Lincoln letter to Benjamin Rush, for instance.
How does that qualify?
Jefferson letter.
I'm not sure— Oh, I'm sorry, did I say it?
Oh, is it Lincoln?
Yeah, okay, I'm sorry.
You have to read the letter to know that.
The person to talk to, the specialist in that period, is Jerry Gawalt, who would know the history of it.
This must be the second in order of Abraham Lincoln.
That's what Lincoln's second inaugural is?
Yeah, then the first inaugural is up above.
In terms of presidents, I think you only have three presidents represented in here.
Jefferson, Madison, Lincoln, yeah.
You've got Lincoln, you've got Jefferson, the first inaugural.
I'm getting it out.
If you don't mind.
I probably won't even use this, but this is kind of exciting.
Well, it's fun.
It's the kind of thing I'm interested in, though.
The artifact, you know.
What is there about the artifact, you know, if digital technology can replicate with such fidelity?
It can.
Say that again.
Will it ever be able to?
But I think there's a... You can't ever say never.
But...
I mean, the point is, if somebody looks at the Duke DeBerry's Trey Richeur at the University of Chicago on his computer, and then says, or thinks that he has looked at the Trey Richeur and doesn't have to go to the Metropolitan, and of course doesn't look at it, he is about 180 degrees raw, it seems.
He has not seen the original view.
That's the U.S.
Constitution printed.
That's the first printed Constitution.
Yeah, the Dunlap.
The Dunlap in play.
Well, this is pretty essential stuff.
How does this differ from materials that are in the possession of the National Archives, just out of curiosity?
Do they have items of equal?
I mean, they certainly have the original technology.
They have the original two, although they were here for a long time as well.
It's separated by public and personal papers.
A lot of these are these people's personal papers, and those have always come to the library up through the Theatre of Orozco.
And then after that, of course, you have a lot of presidential libraries that take care of it.
I mean, this is more than a refrigerator.
It's more than a cooler.
Well, it's environmentally very balanced, temperature ranging around 48 degrees, relative humidity probably in the neighborhood of 45 degrees, a lot of security.
which I can't talk about.
No, I mentioned it, which I don't want to know about, believe it or not, but that's, you know, I can see the security, but I'm thinking in terms of the environmental concerns, and it's a double-lock situation.
Now, does this have that halon stuff, is that what they call it?
It has a system for fire prevention.
You know, halon is a bit problematic because of the fact that, of course, it replaces oxygen and kills people.
Yeah, if you can only get an halon, you're in bad trouble.
So you don't have that.
Let me just take a look at it.
I would have to say that I was not the person who created this environment.
I would have to say, I don't know if it's hell out or not.
I honestly don't know what the fire's presence is, but fire's presence.
I have a question.
It's very sophisticated.
Yeah, so sophisticated I wasn't able to describe it.
And are these, is this like a seismic thing here?
This is keeping track of what's going on out there.
What I'm going to do is close this up and go and get the Hancock and bring it back and put it in.
Can I stand here?
You can stand there.
Take some notes.
He was saying...
I'd like to follow up on that, that there's no way, in your view—and look at this here, we have a little— This is from this particular colonial pamphlet from the Jefferson collection.
That's Thomas Jefferson's books?
Yeah.
Is that his book plate?
Yep.
It's the Library of Congress book plate for his collection.
That's his handwriting.
And this was a folded up oration delivered in New York on the 4th of July, 1796, which for some reason or another, he felt compelled to keep.
Now we've unfolded it because it wasn't accessible and nor was it handleable.
And we're going to actually put it in another binding, this being a compilation anyway, adjacent to this, because this is where it was.
Well, it was bound or it was folded?
It was folded up and sewn in.
Where were the original folds?
I can see them.
Right here, you can see them just a little bit.
It was folded in half.
There, there, there.
Why don't you tell me what's been done to that?
Well, this has been taken out.
It's been flattened.
There is mending that's taken place, and you can see it here in various places.
Let's see.
Yeah.
That's fine.
Not a problem.
All these areas have been reinforced.
You can see there.
I meant you put your top people on this.
Well, most everybody is top people.
I mean, we have people who were junior and people who were senior, but they're all very good.
I mean, this is another
Are they all multi-skilled, or do they go from this to a book?
Well, everybody in here does books primarily, but books and manuscripts.
This is something that's being mended.
This was damaged on the side, and it's going to be put back into the book that it was in.
In fact, I need to get something on here.
What's your particular background?
Well, I've been here sort of since 72, when they opened a training program, and I had a degree in history and thought that this sounded like a nice way to mess with it.
Somehow it got the job.
So you learn preservation here, basically.
I haven't been anyplace since.
Really, no reason to.
There's so much here.
This is interesting that I enjoy.
This is also from the Jefferson Collection.
recently just rebound, and it was in, actually, the exhibition has yet to be tooled.
That's a new binding, or that's this binding?
That's a new binding that we did here.
Really?
The other binding was a mess.
This is... Essays on the Principles of Morality and Natural Religion, in two parts by Henry Hume.
And he was a Scottish philosopher.
And this is, and I can never remember where it is,
There's no foxing there at all.
No, it's in pretty good shape.
This is regarded to be the place where the phrase, pursuit of happiness, was revealed as a political objective to Jefferson.
On the Law of Nature, page 78, and you were pointing out a sentence which...
Unless it be made appear that there is a principle of benevolence in man which prompts him to an equal pursuit of the happiness of all.
Very interesting.
Well, it was interesting, too, where we get the well-springs of creativity come from.
Well, I've heard the program on Jefferson, which was on TV recently, refers to him getting this from John Locke.
That's Hume.
But I think it's this fellow, not John Locke.
But it was interesting, too, because a few years ago, we had a group of, what was the date on that, just out of curiosity?
The 60s.
I don't think I sent the date into my machine.
MDCCLI 61.
1551.
So that's 25 years.
24 years.
We had some of the pen,
the pen authors, and I didn't really know.
You could see some of the faces were familiar, but I didn't know them all.
So this happened to have just been finished, and I was showing it to some, and this one woman just latched onto it.
She was just, that's fascinating.
She was reading it and commenting on how interesting it was.
Well, it was the lady who is Deborah Tannen, the linguist from Georgetown University.
I mean, she just couldn't
She was just mesmerized.
Of course, language and communication is her baby.
And it was just funny, because she gave me her card.
I said, well, I'll send you a Xerox with the page if you like.
And so she gave me the card and said her name.
I said, I think I know why you are.
Great.
I hope we can sit down with that.
All right.
We can also walk around to look at things, because we have a lot going on.
It's up to you.
I'm just really kind of interested in this whole aspect of
book culture, where we're going with books, our commitment to printed books.
Diane indicated that there are instances where you will opt for either the microfilm or the scanned copy of something, and the printed book will have been deemed to have no artifactual value.
I don't think you'd get into that end of it down here.
No, that's a policy decision.
Clearly, in many cases, it's easier for them to provide data with microfilm copies or digitized copies.
I would say, though, that these are, in some respects, and I don't mean to be absolutely unambiguously critical, but they're typical technological solutions to things.
These are typical technological solutions to things.
Mass solutions as opposed to careful solutions.
In other words, you microfilm something for the purpose of preserving it, theoretically.
Preserving the content.
But also the argument is made is microfilm so that the original does not have to be used.
That's another sidebar.
Yeah, but here at LC, you microfilm newspapers and dispose of the newspapers.
Correct.
Newspapers are a separate category.
I'm thinking of printed books.
Okay, but I'm just making a point.
Yeah.
And then, but of course, many times in the course of having to microfilm something, you have to take it apart.
You can't use it.
You can't microfilm it full.
And the same to scan books digitally.
I was up at Cornell last year, and they took me into this room.
You know, these books look like veal cutlets.
I mean, they were stripped and sliced and diced and ready to... This is more immediate, and this is something that's being faced.
I mean, the technology presses us into decisions which are not necessarily, and I'm not in agreement with the people who are making these decisions, and they know that, they still really work here, are not necessarily to the best interests of the material.
I mean, we have gone through a lot of work preparing the digital program for dealing with the physical stresses that those, the digitization is going to create.
Because, of course, it's never considered, oh, just digitize, it's fine.
Well, you can't digitize everything.
You can't open it wide enough to get...